05a-python.md, before:

# Learn Python

Read Allen Downey's [Think Python](http://www.greenteapress.com/thinkpython/) for getting up to speed with Python 2.7 and computer science topics. It's completely available online, or you can buy a physical copy if you would like.

<a href="http://www.greenteapress.com/thinkpython/"><img src="img/think_python.png" style="width: 100px;" target="_blank"></a>

For quick and easy interactive practice with Python, many people enjoy [Codecademy's Python track](http://www.codecademy.com/en/tracks/python). There's also [Learn Python The Hard Way](http://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/) and [The Python Tutorial](https://docs.python.org/2/tutorial/).

---

###Q1. Lists &amp; Tuples

How are Python lists and tuples similar and different? Which will work as keys in dictionaries? Why?

>> REPLACE THIS TEXT WITH YOUR RESPONSE

---

###Q2. Lists &amp; Sets

How are Python lists and sets similar and different? Give examples of using both. How does performance compare between lists and sets for finding an element. Why?

>> REPLACE THIS TEXT WITH YOUR RESPONSE

---

###Q3. Lambda Function

Describe Python's `lambda`. What is it, and what is it used for? Give at least one example, including an example of using a `lambda` in the `key` argument to `sorted`.

>> REPLACE THIS TEXT WITH YOUR RESPONSE

---

###Q4. List Comprehension, Map &amp; Filter

Explain list comprehensions. Give examples and show equivalents with `map` and `filter`. How do their capabilities compare? Also demonstrate set comprehensions and dictionary comprehensions.

>> REPLACE THIS TEXT WITH YOUR RESPONSE

---

###Complete the following problems by editing the files below:

###Q5. Datetime
Use Python to compute days between start and stop date.   
a.  

```
date_start = '01-02-2013'    
date_stop = '07-28-2015'
```

>> REPLACE THIS TEXT WITH YOUR RESPONSE (answer will be in number of days)

b.  
```
date_start = '12312013'  
date_stop = '05282015'  
```

>> REPLACE THIS TEXT WITH YOUR RESPONSE (answer will be in number of days)

c.  
```
date_start = '15-Jan-1994'      
date_stop = '14-Jul-2015'  
```

>> REPLACE THIS TEXT WITH YOUR RESPONSE  (answer will be in number of days)

Place code in this file: [q5_datetime.py](python/q5_datetime.py)

---

###Q6. Strings
Edit the 7 functions in [q6_strings.py](python/q6_strings.py)

---

###Q7. Lists
Edit the 5 functions in [q7_lists.py](python/q7_lists.py)

---

###Q8. Parsing
Edit the 3 functions in [q8_parsing.py](python/q8_parsing.py)

Commit message:

answered question on tuples vs. lists

05a-python.md, after:

# Learn Python

Read Allen Downey's [Think Python](http://www.greenteapress.com/thinkpython/) for getting up to speed with Python 2.7 and computer science topics. It's completely available online, or you can buy a physical copy if you would like.

<a href="http://www.greenteapress.com/thinkpython/"><img src="img/think_python.png" style="width: 100px;" target="_blank"></a>

For quick and easy interactive practice with Python, many people enjoy [Codecademy's Python track](http://www.codecademy.com/en/tracks/python). There's also [Learn Python The Hard Way](http://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/) and [The Python Tutorial](https://docs.python.org/2/tutorial/).

---

###Q1. Lists &amp; Tuples

How are Python lists and tuples similar and different? Which will work as keys in dictionaries? Why?

>> Tuples and lists are similar in the sense that both are sequences of values of any type indexed by integers.

However, the big difference between tuples and lists is that tuples are immutable whereas lists are mutable. Therefore, only tuples are hashable which is a prerequisite for keys in dictionaries. Hence, tuples will work as keys in dictionaries, lists won't.

---

###Q2. Lists &amp; Sets

How are Python lists and sets similar and different? Give examples of using both. How does performance compare between lists and sets for finding an element. Why?

>> REPLACE THIS TEXT WITH YOUR RESPONSE

---

###Q3. Lambda Function

Describe Python's `lambda`. What is it, and what is it used for? Give at least one example, including an example of using a `lambda` in the `key` argument to `sorted`.

>> REPLACE THIS TEXT WITH YOUR RESPONSE

---

###Q4. List Comprehension, Map &amp; Filter

Explain list comprehensions. Give examples and show equivalents with `map` and `filter`. How do their capabilities compare? Also demonstrate set comprehensions and dictionary comprehensions.

>> REPLACE THIS TEXT WITH YOUR RESPONSE

---

###Complete the following problems by editing the files below:

###Q5. Datetime
Use Python to compute days between start and stop date.   
a.  

```
date_start = '01-02-2013'    
date_stop = '07-28-2015'
```

>> REPLACE THIS TEXT WITH YOUR RESPONSE (answer will be in number of days)

b.  
```
date_start = '12312013'  
date_stop = '05282015'  
```

>> REPLACE THIS TEXT WITH YOUR RESPONSE (answer will be in number of days)

c.  
```
date_start = '15-Jan-1994'      
date_stop = '14-Jul-2015'  
```

>> REPLACE THIS TEXT WITH YOUR RESPONSE  (answer will be in number of days)

Place code in this file: [q5_datetime.py](python/q5_datetime.py)

---

###Q6. Strings
Edit the 7 functions in [q6_strings.py](python/q6_strings.py)

---

###Q7. Lists
Edit the 5 functions in [q7_lists.py](python/q7_lists.py)

---

###Q8. Parsing
Edit the 3 functions in [q8_parsing.py](python/q8_parsing.py)
